Britain cares for the work in England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland, but we also care for
Malta, Pakistan, the Arabian Gulf and the Falkman Islands.
In the year 1900, Britain was the first branch to be established outside the United States.
The original branch building and its subsequent replacements were in the centre of the city,
but in 1959, the Bethel family moved to a 17-acre site in the suburbs of London in Levy,
Mill Hill.
Now radiating around that original Bethel property, there are now an additional eight
apartment blocks, 12 houses, three office blocks and four printary buildings across an
area of 10 miles.
We have a fleet of 37-15 Cedar buses to ferry personnel to morning worship, to their
work and back home again in the evening.
It was therefore with great joy that the Bethel family received the news that the governing
body had approved the building of a new Bethel on a new site.
The brief that the relocation team was given was to cast their net wide around Britain
to see what your hover would bless.
Over 300 sites were investigated over a period of two years, and then we were alerted
to something that seemed to indicate Jehovah's blessing.
Surprisingly, a local planning authority approached us and asked if we were interested
in this property at Temple Farm.
This was near the city of Chumsford.
It was owned by a family that had turned the site into a wrecking yard where there were
1,500 wrecked vehicles.
When a meeting was held with the city planning team and some of the local elected officials,
others came from WDC to help us with the presentation.
During the meeting, one of the elected officials interrupted the presentation and said,
stop, stop, you seem to be under the impression that you're here to convince me that you should
have this site.
While I'm actually here to convince you that you should have this site.
So where is the project now?
The governing body very kindly have given us permission to continue construction once
we've reviewed the scope of the building.
So we hope to be underway very soon.
In the field, the video Why Study the Bible is proving to be a wonderful tool.
David, an auxiliary pioneer in the north of England, decided to follow the suggestion
to use the video.
But he was nervous as he'd never used his tablet in the ministry before.
So he prayed to Jehovah for courage.
On his first call that morning, after inviting the householder to watch the video, the man
asked him in.
They watched the video.
The man Alan told David, he said, just two hours ago I was praying to God for someone
to help me learn about him.
David said, your prayer has been answered and immediately started the Bible study.
Everyone made good progress, studying twice a week, attending all the meetings from the
start, giving up smoking, and he was baptized on the second of May this year.
Those engaged in the special metropolitan program have been encouraged to become Bible study-minded.
When Emma approached a man who was looking at the Bible teach books on the cart, she told
him that he was welcome to take the book.
The man said, can someone teach me the Bible?
And then he said, look, I'm only in the city for one day I'm visiting.
Can you teach me to study now?
So she straight away went through the first chapter of the Bible teach book.
As she finished that, he then said, can we continue this conversation somewhere?
So Emma and her husband Philip arranged to meet him at a coffee shop where she answered
or they both answered many of his questions.
During the discussion, they told him that the name of the true God is Jehovah and immediately
he started to use that name.
They then brought out the video, why study the Bible in his own language, Malayalam.
That really impressed him.
And then they arranged for his study to continue in his home city.
Publishers who are regularly involved in the public witnessing work soon become well-known
in their communities.
People get to trust us and they feel less intimidated by our presence.
In North London, Luigi, an elderly Italian brother, really does very well in this public
witnessing work at the local underground station where he's a constant feature in the early
morning.
He has many root calls who collect their magazines.
One day as a young lady who started to regularly take the magazines approached to get her copies
and said, Luigi said to her, hey, what's your name?
She said, my name is Juliet.
Ha, what a coincidence.
My name is Romeo.
She laughed and went away to catch the train.
The next day, Luigi was at the station.
The lady in the flora shop came out with a beautiful bouquet of flowers and presented it
to Luigi.
Luigi, this is for you.
It's for me.
We looked at a little card on the bouquet and it said, to Romeo from Juliet.
So dear brothers and sisters, please accept this report and the warm love and best wishes
on the battle family and the Chelmsford construction family.